New York, NY | 412-706-1377
mukunth.arjunan@gmail.com

Motivated Data Scientist with 3 years of experience in analyzing and maintaining large datasets, and deriving multi-stage insights for
various industries including retail, travel, financial, and subscription-based companies. Strong problem-solving skills and the ability
to adapt quickly to new challenges. Results-oriented mindset focused on delivering actionable insights that drive business growth and
efficiency.

SQL (MySQL, Postgres, NoSQL, Snowflake)
Python (NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Keras, Flask)
R, SAS
Sigma, Power BI, Tableau
Data Visualization

Time Series Forecasting
Productionizing Models
Customer Segmentation
Regression analysis
ETL (Extract Transform Load)
Database Management

Javascript (NodeJS, ReactJS, jQuery)
HTML/CSS
AWS
Git
Agile Methodology

Built and implemented a K-means cluster for AMC theatres to profile and allocate customers based on past spend, frequency and
basket size post pandemic. Used the clusters to recommend targeted campaigns for AMC which resulted in a 7% sales lift across
groups on average.
Standardized a stratified test/control selection for WAWA and built a propensity score matcher to reduce observational bias in all
randomized controlled trials. Almost 70% of previous trials showed better results and lift after applying the model.
Optimized and automated weekly and monthly reports and dashboards for multiple clients like Best Buy, AMC and Subway for
points liability, expirations, enrollments, cardholders, etc. through the company's client databases on SQL. Decreased manual
run time by 83%.
Built a churn model and survival forest to identify the most important features related to churn and assign a churn score for each
account. Top 50% of churn scores were then targeted with relevant monthly retention programs. Decreased customer attrition by
14% in Wawa and 9% in Ascena brands.
Develop and implement customer lifetime value models to assess the long-term profitability of customers and guide strategic
decision-making.
Utilized advanced querying, visualization and analytics tools to effectively communicate insights and recommendations to
internal and external stakeholders, aiding in decision-making and driving business growth.

Cooperated with the statistics department in University of Pittsburgh to gather behavioral data from college freshman for
observational and sample studies.
Organized, preprocessed and analyzed experimental data in SAS and R, decreasing errors and reducing data processing time

Requested by Southern Methodist University to conduct an in depth analysis of Rate My Professor in a student led project.
Web scraped Rate My Professor for multiple universities and used NLTK and SVM to model quantitative and qualitative reviews to
identify gender bias between ratings.

May 2023- Present

3.5/4.0

